---
layout: cv
title: CV
permalink: /cv/
---

# Erin Murphy-Graham
Associate Adjunct Professor, Graduate School of Education, University of California - Berkeley  
[academic webpage](http://erinmurphygraham.github.io/education/), <emurphy@berkeley.edu>

## Current Position
`2012 - present` Associate Adjunct Professor, Graduate School of Education, University of California – Berkeley

## Past Positions
`2009 - 2011` Assistant Professor, Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development , New York University  
`2005 - 2012` Assistant Adjunct Professor, Graduate School of Education, University of California – Berkeley (on leave 2009 - 2011)

## Education
`2005` Ed.D., Education, Harvard Graduate School of Education    
`1999` M.Sc., Comparative and International Education, Oxford University    
`1998` B.A., International Relations and Spanish, Tufts University

## Awards and Honors
`2013` Comparative and International Education Society Jackie Kirk Outstanding Book Award   
(Awarded for _Opening Minds, Improving Lives_...)    
`2007` Center for Latin American Studies, UC Berkeley Faculty Travel Award    
`2003` Dissertation Research Grant, Harvard Graduate School of Education    
`2002` Spencer Foundation Advanced Doctoral Student Apprenticeship Grant    
`2000, 2001` Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowship (FLAS), US Department of Education    
`1999` Outstanding Student, New England Council on Latin American Studies 1998 Dissertation distinction, Oxford University    
`1995` Phi Beta Kappa & Summa cum laude, Tufts University    
Dean’s Prize for Academic Excellence, Tufts University

## Grants and Gifts
`2016 - 2017` University of California Office of the President Innovative Learning Technology Initiative (ILTI). _Educating for
the 21st Century: A UCB Online Minor._ $430,000. (Glynda Hull, PI; Awarded for the development of the 
online course _Education in a Global World_)    
`2016` Seattle International Foundation. Education Summit: Central American Donor’s Forum. $3500. (Gift).    
Summit Charitable Foundation. _Addressing Child Marriage Through Holistic Education: A Design Research Study._ $17,108.    
`2015 - 2018` Economic and Social Research Council. _Examining Effective Teaching in Rural Honduran Secondary Schools._ $449,560.    
`2011 - 2016` United States Agency for International Development. _Impact Evaluation of the A Ganar Program in Central America._ $156,017. (CO-PI with Mike Duthie).    
`2008` University of California, Berkeley Institute for International Studies Junior Faculty Fellowship. _Exploring the connections between schooling, agency, empowerment and child marriage in rural Honduras._ $5,000.    
`2007 - 2013` William and Flora Hewlett Foundation. _Impact Evaluation of the Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial Program._ $1,280,000. (PI, CO-PI Patrick McEwan).

## Publications

### Books

`2012` Murphy-Graham, E. _Opening Minds, Improving Lives: Education and Women’s Empowerment in Honduras._ Nashville: Vanderbilt University Press.
(Winner of the Comparative and International Education Society Jackie Kirk Outstanding Book Award)
[Amazon Page](http://www.amazon.com/dp/082651829X), [Vanderbilt University Press Page](http://www.vanderbilt.edu/university-press/book/9780826518293)

### Peer-reviewed journal articles
_Click on bracketed numbers to access pdf versions of articles_ (provided for individual use only)

`2016` [[14]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_PFE2016.pdf) Murphy-Graham, E. and Lloyd, C. "Empowering adolescent girls in developing countries: The potential role of education." _Policy Futures in Education_ 14 (5): 556 - 577.    
`2015` [[13]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_CER2015.pdf) Murphy-Graham, E., and Leal, G. "Child marriage, agency, and schooling in rural Honduras." _Comparative Education Review_ 15 (1): 24 - 49.   
[[12]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_EEPA2015.pdf) McEwan, P., Murphy-Graham, E., Torres Irribarra, D., Aguilar, C. and Rapalo Castellanos, R. "Improving middle school quality in poor countries: Evidence from the Honduran Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial." _Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis_ 37 (1): 113 - 137.    
`2014` [[11]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_IJED2014.pdf) Murphy-Graham, E. and Lample, J. "Learning to trust: Case studies from Honduras and Uganda." _International Journal of Educational Development_ 36: 51 - 62.   
`2012` [[10]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_JICE2012.pdf) Vinall, K. and Murphy-Graham, E. "'I learn to seek solutions but without work I can’t solve anything': Youth education and community development in Honduras." _Journal of International Cooperation in Education_. 55 (2): 35 - 51.    
`2010` [[9]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_IJED2010.pdf) Murphy-Graham, E. "And when she comes home? Education and women’s empowerment in intimate relationships." _International Journal of Educational Development_ 30 (3): 320 - 331.    
`2009` [[8]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_IRE2009.pdf) Murphy-Graham, E. "Constructing a new vision: Undoing gender through secondary education in Honduras." _International Review of Education_ 55 (5): 503 - 521.    
`2008` [[7]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_GE2008.pdf) Murphy-Graham, E. "Opening the black box: Women’s empowerment and innovative secondary education in Honduras." _Gender and Education_ 20 (1): 31 - 50.    
[[6]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_AJE2008.pdf) Weiss, C., Murphy-Graham, E., Gandhi, A., and Petrosino, A. "The fairy godmother and her warts - Making the dream of evidence-based policy come true." _American Journal of Evaluation_ 29 (1): 29 - 47.    
`2007` [[5]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_PROS2007.pdf) Murphy-Graham, E. "How secondary education can be used to promote participation in public life: Evidence from the Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial program in Honduras." _Prospects Quarterly Review of Comparative Education_ 37 (1): 95 - 111.    
[[4]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_ER2007.pdf) Gruner, A., Murphy-Graham, E., Petrosino, A., and Weiss, C. "The devil is in the details: examining the evidence for school-based drug abuse prevention programs." _Evaluation Review_ 31 (1): 43 - 74.    
`2006` [3] Petrosino, A., Birkeland, S., Hacsi, T, Murphy-Graham, E. and Weiss, C. "US state government and D.A.R.E.: The story in four states." _Evidence & Policy_ 2 (3): 291 - 319.    
`2005` [[2]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_AJE2005.pdf) Weiss, C., Murphy-Graham, E., and Birkeland, S. "An alternate route to policy influence: Evidence from a study of the Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) Program." _American Journal of Evaluation_ 26 (1): 12 - 31.    
[[1]]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl}}/downloads/published/EMG_EPP2005.pdf)  Birkeland, S., Murphy-Graham, E., and Weiss, C. "Good reasons for ignoring good evaluation: Evidence from a study of the Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) Program." _Evaluation and Program Planning_ 28 (3): 247 - 256.

Last updated: February 2017 -->


